Practice what you preach: reproducible research at the frontlines of science
============================================================================

In the last few years, the topic of reproducible research has come up more and
more frequently. While most of the discussion was around clinical trials or at
least wet lab research in general, proponents argue that all proper research
should be reproducible. In fact, you will be hard pressed to find anybody
arguing that research should not be reproducible. So why is it that out there in
the real world, you constantly bump into research that is not (easily)
reproducible?

An important reason is that there is a cost involved to practice
reproducible research. Experimental parameters need to be recorded completely
and appropriately, and samples stored in a way to keep them useable. While all
of this can be challenging in wet lab experiments, none of this should be too
difficult in bioinformatics. So how do you run your day to day bioinformatics
research in a way that is reproducible? What extra steps are required? And is
it worth the overhead?

This talk will present some of the tools and resources to reproducibility that
work in bioinformatics research practice. It will highlight common problems
encountered on the way to reproducibility, and give some guidance on overcoming
those.


About the speaker
-----------------

Kai Blin is a research software engineer currently doing a post-doc at the Novo
Nordisk Foundation Center for Biosustainability at the Danish Technical
University working on discovering new antibiotics. He is dividing his spare time
between theatre, playing string instruments and developing Open Source software
with the Samba Teamm.
